# Flink State Backend implemented using Memory Mapped Files
Honeycomb is an ephemeral storage system for serverless analytics that decouples storage, communication, and lifetime management of intermediate data from computation across individual tasks in analytics jobs. While Honeycomb is effective for serverless computing contexts, where local memory on nodes is limited and remote memory access is preferred, its performance is not optimized for distributed settings in which there is substantial local memory collocated with worker CPUs. 

In this project, I created a State Backend for Apache Flink, a state-of-the-art streaming analytics platform, that enables the performance of local memory accesses with the qualitative benefits of Honeycomb-managed memory listed above. Specifically, this State Backend uses Honeycomb-managed memory mapped files to store state information rather than using the Java Heap. To understand the efficacy of this approach, I evaluated this State Backend against a number of performance-benchmarks and found that the memory operations had performance comparable to heap-allocated memory. These benchmarks show the feasibility of this design and show the clear performance improvements associated with enabling local memory accesses within Honeycomb. Since applications running on Flink workers don’t need to change their code to run on Honeycomb, this interface is transparent. As a result, this project acts as a proof of concept that Honeycomb can provide transparent low-latency and high throughput memory management across all distributed frameworks.
